---
layout: post
title:  "Robust Imaging with Sum of Squares Barrier Verification"
date:   2019-12-21 12:43:00
categories: jekyll update
excerpt: "Controlling a drone to robustly image a target by means of nonlinear optimization."
month: "December 2019"
---

In Fall 2019, I enrolled in a new seminar course in the MIT Aerospace Engineering department: 16.S498 Risk-Aware and Robust Nonlinear Planning. This course, taught by Ashkan Jasour, covered the theory and method of nonlinear optimization and its application to safe control of dynamic systems under uncertainty.

A particular focus of our learning this semester was Sum of Squares (SOS) programming. A SOS program solver takes advantage of the fact that any expression that is the sum of squared polynomials is guaranteed to be nonnegative for all inputs. The solver searches for such SOS polynomials to satisfy a given set of inequality constraints, and this operation can be applied to efficiently optimize a nonconvex, nonlinear objective.

In previous work, SOS programming has been used to efficiently find a Lyapunov function guaranteeing stable safety of a dynamical system given an obstacle and uncertainty set. I implemented a slight extension of this technique to find Lyapunov functions guaranteeing visibility of a target object amidst a cluttered environment. When found, these functions act as certificates of robust imaging success for a set of proposed motion primitives, which can be evaluated and executed in real-time.

[Paper](https://github.com/gmargo11/robust-imaging/blob/master/paper.pdf "Paper") \| [Code](https://github.com/gmargo11/robust-imaging "Code")